Which tree is used to eliminate intestinal parasites, malaria and uterine cancer? 00
A decoction of the flowers, leaves and roots of this tree has been used to reduce fevers and pain, cause sweating, to treat tonsil inflammation and other disorders. Which tree is this? 00
Native Amazonians use extracts of several parts of this tree to treat hypertension, tumors, pain, inflammation, common cold, stomachache, skin conditions and wounds, malaria, toothache. 01
Its fruit pulp is rubbed on sick dogs to cure them of mange. 01
Its extract is used to rejuvenate, to promote longevity, to enhance digestion, treat constipation, reduce fever, purify the blood, reduce cough, alleviate asthma, strengthen the heart, benefit the eyes, stimulate hair growth, enliven the body, and enhance intellect. 02
Its shampoos and hair oil are traditionally believed to nourish the hair and scalp and prevent premature greying of hair. 02
Its juice is restorative tonic and used in heat stroke. Its seeds are used in asthma and as an astringent. 03
Fumes from the burning leaves are inhaled for relief from hiccups and affections of the throat. 03
Its bark is astringent, it is used in diphtheria and rheumatism, and it is believed to possess a tonic action on mucus membrane.The bark is astringent, it is used in diphtheria and rheumatism, and it is believed to possess a tonic action on mucus membrane. 03
Its gum is used in dressings for cracked feet and for scabies. 03
Its fruit is used to reduce fever and its seeds are employed against diarrhoea, dysentery, diabetes and catarrh and have an anaesthetic property.04
Its leaf decoction is applied to sore eyes, also serves as a diuretic and expectorant and treatment for rheumatism. Powdered leaves are rubbed on the bodies of smallpox patients for cooling effect. 04
Its bark's decoction is administered to relieve asthma and bronchitis. Its root is an effective remedy for epilepsy. 04
Its leaves are applied to inflamed and swollen joints. When cut, the young fruit secretes a yellow sticky sap used to treat ringworm and other skin diseases. Its roots are used as a tonic. 05
Herbal tea made from Its leaves is prescribed against dysentery and diarrhea. The leaves may contain agents for prevention of cancers and show antioxidant characteristics. 06
Keeping its leaves in an aquarium may lower the pH and heavy metal content of the water and helps prevent fungus forming on the eggs of the fish. 06
Its bark provides immediate relief to a person bitten by snake or scorpion. Its leaves and fruits are used in preparing medicines for curing nervous disorders. Its bark is also used for treating diarrhoea, dysentery, piles, worm infestations, leprosy, bronchitis, asthma, tumour of muscles and to improve concentration. 07
The gum of this tree is nutritive and good in taste and is used by pregnant woman at the time of delivery. 07
The root of the plant is reported to be a powerful diuretic. A grinding of the root and lemon juice is reportedly used as an external application and also taken internally in small quantities as a remedy for snake, rat and scorpion bites. 08
Its peppered leaves are used to make a poultice to treat sciatica, lumbago and rheumatism, while the seeds are used as a cathartic and the root as a purgative. Its syrup is used to medicate the stomach, the fruit is eaten as a blood-enhancer for the liver. 10
The moisture retention properties found in its seed oil are valued. A tea made from young leaves is thought to be useful for diarrhea, dysentery or fever. 13
Its bark decoction has been used as a diuretic, aphrodisiac, and to treat headache, as well as type II diabetes. 15
Its products are antifungal, antidiabetic, antibacterial, antiviral, contraceptive and sedative. Its oil is also used for healthy hair, to improve liver function, detoxify the blood, and balance blood sugar levels. It is also burnt to keep away mosquitoes. 18
It are known for having a distinct aroma and are a good source of antioxidants, vitamin C, vitamin B6, potassium, calcium, iron and dietary fiber. Seeds are used as snacks either by boiling or fire roasting, or to make desserts. Its seeds are rich in protein, cooked as snacks / chips. 19
It was introduced into Ayurveda as a treatment for heart disease. It is traditionally prepared as a milk decoction. It is used in the treatment of wounds, haemorrhages and ulcers, applied topically as a powder. It is an excellent medicine for the heart. 21
Its oil also can be used for skin care products such as sunscreen lotions, cleansing creams, moisturizers, hair conditioners and makeup bases. 22
The oil and milk derived from it are commonly used in cooking and frying; Its oil is also widely used in soaps and cosmetics. 23
The fruits falling from the tree attract fish that are then caught. In traditional medicine, its leaves can be used as an antiseptic, antipruritic, antipyretic, anti-inflammatory and to treat abdominal cramps. 24
The bark is said to have healing power. It is rubbed on a stone with water to make a paste which is applied over the skin which is afflicted by boils or mosquito bites. 25
Decoction of its bark used for diarrhoea and fever. Seed kernel oil used as skin ointment and as dressing for falling hair. 26
The inner bark is shredded, and then boiled, making a bitter brownishcoloured tea known as lapacho or taheebo. Lapacho bark is typically used during flu and cold season. 29